# CS 506: The Project

Our team consisted of Svadrut Kukunooru, Jack Zhang, Alice Shelton, Melanie Ato-Yagar, Alex Parker, Flynn Li, and Trela Sun. In Sprint 0 and Sprint 1, I was the product owner and Flynn was the Scrum Master. We introduced ourselves and voted on what project we wanted to do. We decided on the MySQL-based filesystem. We also decided on our team name, "The De-Filers". As the product owner, I was tasked with creating a requirements document and from this, make a product backlog that we could work through for this sprint and future sprints. I split requirements into categories like the relational database storage, frontend, and user authentication. I also made non-functional requirements such as performance, how the user interface was supposed to feel, security, and constraints. 

I then tried to convert these requirements to valid user stories in the form of, "As a XXXX, I want to XXXX so that I XXXXXXX". In our next meeting, we tried to mark certain user stories that we could finish in the first sprint and played planning poker to estimate the amount of story points each story would require. We also figured out what langauges we were strong in, and what parts of the project we would be focusing on. I volunteered for creating the database, since I was good at SQL, Alice volunteered for making the backend methods, Alex volunteered to the CI/CD pipeline, and Flynn and Trela decided to focus on the frontend. Additionally in this sprint, we made a coding standards document. 
