# CS354: Lec 001
## Grade Distributions
- Projects: 55%
- Quizzes: 10%
- Midterm: 15%
- Final: 20%
- Participation: Irrelevant. 

There will be 1 quiz per week, similar to CS252. 

Letter grades are as follows: 

- 95%: A
- 90%: AB
- 85%: B
- 80%: BC
- 70%: C
- 60%: D 

Exams are open-note; you have the Internet to help you. 

**Projects should be started when they are handed out.**

All projects are due at 11:59 P.M., but it's more like whenever they start grading (e.g. next morning). Work less than a week late will receive half credit, and will not be accepted after said week. 

---
## How Computers Work
- Computers are built with three main parts
	- *Apps*: Word Processing, Browsers, etc. 
	- *Software Systems*: OS, Drivers
	- *Hardware*: CPU/Memory/Disk
- When we run a program, such as this one: 
```c
// sum.c
... 
a = 1; 
b = 2; 
c = a + b; 
...
```

* The Von Neumann Architecture, made in 1950, states that a computer works something like this: 

$$
\text{Inputs} \implies \text{CPU} \Longleftrightarrow \text{Memory} \implies \text{Outputs}
$$

- When `sum.c` is run, it is stored in the disk, where we use a compiler (GCC in this case) to convert the instructions to binary.  This binary representation is called an object file, or machine code. 
- This binary code is also stored in the disk. 
- When we actually run the code (`./sum`), the OS will run a micro-program called a *loader*, which takes the machine code and stores it (and the data, in this case a=1, b=2, c=0) onto the memory. 
- The processor has little memory stores too, called *registers*, which takes the required data from the memory and performs operations on it. To perform `c = a + b`, it needs the values for `a` and `b`, which it stores in the first two registers, respectively. In the third register, it can calculate the value of `c` by adding the first two registers together. Then, it loads the value from the register back into the memory; this is called a *store* operation. 
- A CPU's processing can be broken down into three parts: 
	- *FETCH*: Get the instruction from the memory; in this case, it's taking `a` and `b` from the memory
	- *DECODE*: Figuring out what instruction it has to do; in this case, it has to add `a` and `b` and load `c` back into the memory
	- *EXECUTE*: Executing the instruction
	- This set of actions repeats in a loop until the program is completed. 
* This is what happens when the code is run, but what  happens when our code is compiled first? 
	* *PREPROCESSOR (CPP)*: Removes the comments, all the stuff that the compiler doesn't really need (`-E`) 
	* *COMPILER PROPER (CC1)*: Produces code that is written in Assembly, still human-readable, but a bit harder (`-S`)
	* *ASSEMBLER (AS)*: Produces an object file, written in machine code (`-c`)
	* *LINKER (LD)*: Combines multiple needed object files to create the *executable*

## Basic C 
```c
#include<stdio.h> // library to get/show input/output; for the printf function

int main() { // main function
	int a; // initializes variables
	int b;
	int c; 
	a = 1; // sets variables to values
	b = 2; 
	c = a + b; 
	printf("The sum is %d", c); // The printf function takes a string and a list of variables. The variables are inserted wherever a % is typed. (The %d just ensures that the variable is represented as a decimal.)

	return 0; // kind of like a return true 
}
```

