# CS354: Lec 002
## Number Systems
- Lowest-level representation of data is called a *bit*; can be either 0 or 1. 
- A *byte* is 8 of these bits, for example: `10100100`
- The leftmost digit is the *most significant bit* or MSB, and the rightmost digit is the *least significant bit* or LSB. 
 - With just two bits, we can represent 4 numbers: `01, 10, 00, 11`. 
	 - With this pattern we can find how many numbers that can be represented with a certain amount of binary digits with the expression below, where $x$ is the amount of digits and $y$ is the amount of numbers that can be represented. 

$$y = 2^x$$

- Since binary is a bit annoying to write, we use hex, which converts 4 binary digits to 1 character. As such, `1011 0100 1011 1001 1010 1011 1010 1111` is converted to `B4B9ABAF`, or conventionally, `0xB4B9ABAF`. The `0x` prefix is used to tell the computer that the characters after it will be written in hexadecimal.  A demo is shown below: 

```c
#include<stdio.h> 
int main() {
	int num = 0xB4B9ABAF; 
	printf("num = %x\n", num); 
	printf("num = %d\n", num); 
	return 0; 
}
// output 
num = b4b9abaf
num = -1262900305
```

## Memory Model
A memory is made up of a certain amount of bytes. Say you have a memory made up of 16 bytes, each byte taking up 1 slot in the total memory. 
* Suppose you store a 4 byte int `0x0000000B` at address 4. Since the entire int is 4 bytes, it cannot all be stored in one byte slot. Instead, the value is stored from addresses 4-7. 
## More Basic C Stuff
* A `char` is 1 byte. You can map it to a binary representation, and can therefore do math on it. For example, if you set char to `A` and do `char = char + 1`, `char` is now `B`. 
* A `double` is always more accurate than a `float`. 
* `int ` is typically 4 bytes. 
* `short` is typically 2 bytes. 
* `long` is typically 8 bytes. 
* C does not contain strings or boolean values, at least as a primitive type. Instead, we can create a string using a character array, e.g. `char course[] = "CS354"`. This will be constructed as `C` `S` `3` `5` `4` `\0` (the last character is the null terminal character which terminates all strings). 
* Operators are identical to java. 
* Booleans can be represented by numbers: 0 is false, and everything else is true. 
* C has `while` loops, `for` loops, and `do-while` loops.