# CS240: Lec 001
* *Proof*: A method for ascertaining (establishing/verifying) the truth. For example, experimentation or observation, sampling and counter-examples, judge and jury, religion, inner conviction, etc.
* *Mathematical Proof*: A verification of a ==proposition== by a chain of ==logical deductions== from a set of ==axioms==. 
	* *Proposition*: A statement that is either true or false.

### EXAMPLE
$$
\forall n \in \mathbb{N}, n^2 + n + 41 \ \text{is a prime number.}
$$

(In other words, for all natural numbers $n$ in the set of natural numbers {0, 1, 2, 3, etc.}, $n^2 + n + 41$ is a prime number. ) 

We can check if this proposition is true by plugging in values for $n$. The proposition is true for the values from 0 to 39, but breaks when we plug in 40 for $n$ 

NOTE: The second part of this proposition is called the *predicate*, the proposition whose truth depends upon the value of the variable. 

---
### EXAMPLE

$$
\forall n \in \mathbb{Z}, n \geq 2 \implies n^2 \geq 4
$$

($\mathbb{Z}$ is the set of all integers, {0, 1, ,-1, 2, -2, ...}. ) 

*IMPLIES*: An implication $p \implies q$ is said to be true if $p$ is false or $q$ is true. In other words, 

| $p$ | $q$ | $p \implies q$ |
| --- | --- | -------------- |
| T   | T   | T              |
| T   | F   | F              |
| F   | T   | T              |
| F   | F   | T              |

Another example: If pigs fly, I will be king. This is true, since pigs will never fly. It doesn't matter if the predicate is correct. 

---
### EXAMPLE
$$
\forall n \in \mathbb{Z}, n \geq 2 \Longleftrightarrow n^2 \geq 4
$$

(The left-right arrow means if-and-only-if.) 

This statement is false. If we plug in a negative number, say $n = -3$, the predicate is correct but the *subject* (first part of a proposition) is false. 

| $p$ | $q$ | $p \Longleftrightarrow q$ |
| --- | --- | -------------- |
| T   | T   | T              |
| T   | F   | F              |
| F   | T   | F              |
| F   | F   | T              |

---

*Axioms*: A proposition that is "assumed" to be true. For example,
$$
\text{If }a = b \text{ and } b = c, \text{ then } a = c.
$$
Another: 
$$
\text{Given a line } L \text{ and a point } p \text{ not on } L, \text{ there is exactly one line through } p \text{ parallel through L}
$$
Axioms should be *consistent* and *complete*. 

* *Consistent*: No proposition using the axiom can be proved to be both true AND false. 
* *Complete*: The axiom can be used to prove is either true OR false. 

## NOTES FROM 2015 LECTURE
* Proof by picture is often elegant and very convincing, but it's usually wrong since using picture proofs comes with a great deal of assumptions. 
* *Theorem*: An important true proposition
* *Lemma*: A preliminary proposition useful for proving later propositions
* *Corollary*: A proposition that follows (in a series of logical steps) a theorem