# CS240: Lec 002
*Proof by Contradiction*: To prove a proposition $P$ is true, assume that it's false and use the resulting hypothesis  to derive a contradiction. Therefore, $P$ is not false and therefore true. 

### Examples
$$
\sqrt[3]{1332} \leq 11
$$

Assuming this is true, that means that $1332 \leq 11^3$. This isn't true, since $11^3 = 1331$. Therefore, the statement above is false.  
$$
\sqrt{2} \text{ is irrational.}
$$
Suppose that $\sqrt{2}$ was rational. Therefore, we must have integers $n$ and $d$ without common prime factors such that 
$$
\sqrt{2} = \frac{n}{d}
$$

$$
d\sqrt{2} = n
$$

$$
2d^2 = n^2
$$

We conclude from this that $n$ is even. 
$$
n = 2k
$$

$$
n^2 = 4k^2
$$

$$
2d^2 = 4k^2
$$

$$
d^2 = 2k^2
$$

Therefore, $d$ is even. The statement above is false. 

---
*Proof by Cases*: The process of breaking a complicated problem into easier sub-problems. However, some philosophers (intuitionists) worry that this method is incorrect. 

### Example
```java
if((x > 0) || (x <= 0 && y > 100)) { 
// do something 
}
```

Prove that this can be rewritten as

```java
if ((x > 0) || y > 100) {
// do something
}
```

You can prove this by plugging in all different cases. If `x` is greater than `0` both code will run the same, since the first or conditional is identical. If `x` is less than `0` and `y` is less than `100` both code will not run the block inside the if statement, because it doesn't meet the condition. If `x` is less than `0` and `y` is greater than `100` both code will run. All other conditions are taken care of by the first or block.

## Induction 
*Induction Axiom*: Let $P(n)$ be a predicate. If $P(0)$ is true and $\forall n \in \mathbb{N}$ that means that $P(n) \implies P(n + 1)$ is true. Then, for all $\forall n \in \mathbb{N}$, $P(n)$ is true.  

### Example
Prove the following expression using induction. 
$$
1 + 2 + 3 + ... + n = \frac{n(n+1)}{2}
$$
BASE CASE: Prove that $n = 0$ is true. 
$$
0 = \frac{0(0 + 1)}{2} \ \ \ \checkmark
$$
INDUCTIVE STEP: For $n \geq 0$, show that $P(n) \implies P(n + 1)$ is true. 

Assume that $P(n)$ is true for the purposes of induction. Then, simply show that $P(n+1)$ is true. 
$$
1 + 2 + ... + (n + 1) = \frac{(n+1)(n+2)}{2}
$$

$$
\frac{n(n+1)}{2} + n + 1 = \frac{n^2 + n + 2n + 2}{2} = \frac{(n + 1)(n + 2)}{2}
$$

Prove the following expression using induction: 
$$
\text{All horses are the same color. }
$$
$P(n)$: In any set of $n$ horses, the horses are all the same color. 

BASE CASE: $n = 1$. In other words, in any set of 1 horses, are all horses' colors the same? The answer is yes. $P(1)$ is true. 

INDUCTIVE STEP: Assume that $P(n)$ is true to prove that $P(n+1)$ is true. 

Consider a set of $n+1$ horses; in other words, $H_1, H_2, ..., H_{n+1}$ . 
Additionally, consider the set $H_2, H_3, ..., H_n+1$. This is the same as the set from $P(n)$, so this set has all the same color. Therefore, 
$$
H_1 = H_2, H_3, H_{n+1} = H_{n+1}
$$
This implies $P(n+1)$. 

**THIS INDUCTION IS INCORRECT**. We forgot to prove that it works from $P(1) \implies P(2)$. 