# Sociological Imagination

The sociological imagination can be defined as the "ability to see the context which shapes your decision making, as well as the decisions made by others." (National University). In other words, sociological imagination is how one understands reality by connecting their own personal experiences to society as a whole. However, the opposite can also be true, with society being influence by minute individual experiences that aggregate over time. Examples of this concept can be seen most prevalently in both the United States and Japan. 

Japan's history is one of the more interesting ones, with it being forced to adapt parts of foreign cultures to avoid falling behind the rest of the world and getting colonized, yet somehow changing those parts into something that aligns with their traditional values. Japan's values have been set in stone for the past millennium, with the concept of groups being the most prevalent. In fact, group life has been described as the "Japanese heart" since it is often thought of as the one concept that has grown Japan into what it is today. (*Global Sociology*) The intention of groups has changed a great deal over Japan's history -- during the World War, groups were centered around the nation, emperor, and military, but after Japan lost and began to modernize, the groups were centered around companies and schools. This may seem like a dramatic transition, but the groups themselves did not change -- only their goals did. (*Global Sociology*). 

The reason that groups have become such a large part of the essence of Japan  stems from its mythology. According to legend, Japan is a holy land of sorts, and all Japanese people are all commonly related to the sun goddess Amaterasu (*Global Sociology*). This mentality is reinforced by the fact that Japanese is spoken by relatively few people outside of Japan (Tasker). This one big group can therefore be easily split up into thousands of smaller groups, ranging from simple families to national conglomerates. In this way, we can see how Japan's values affect simple familial units. In the early 20th century, Japanese people lived their entire lives as part of an extended family in the same neighborhood. Called an *ie*, this extended family all worked together to achieve one common goal, whether it was making beer or growing crops. As time passed, group life transferred from villages, which were rendered practically extinct due to modernization, to work and school. However, simple nuclear families are still extremely important in Japan's society. In these units, traditional roles are still extremely prevalent, with men being expected to go out, work, and make money for the family, and women being expected to devote their time to taking care of the house, raising children, and serving their husband. This can be attributed to Confucian values that were held in high regard since the 16th century due to the Tokugawa Shogunate promoting its values of filial piety and humaneness in order to unite Japan after centuries of war.  

Sociological imagination can be used to see how family units are affected by centuries of history, even today. Since Confucianism and group life were prevalent in the last few centuries for Japan, a great deal of values from the past have leaked into the family lives of today. Most people in Japan now live their lives for what they think is a greater purpose, be it the company they are working for, their country, or their family. 

Sociological imagination can also help one understand the society that I grew up in. I am an Indian-American, and was born from and raised by two Indian immigrants. As such, my views are conservative relative to my peers. For example, in my University of Wisconsin -- Madison classes, I am often the only one wearing a mask, since masking was drilled into me by my parents when COVID-19 first started becoming relevant. The obvious answer to why my immigrant parents were more cautious about COVID-19 then, say, an average person in Wisconsin, would be that they are more educated. However, when one investigates into why exactly Indians are encouraged to become as educated as possible, interesting connections begin to appear. Originally, India had a system called the *Gurukula*, where the student would go to the Guru's house and request education. If accepted, the student would stay at the guru's place and help with household tasks along with learning. When India was colonized by the British, education was modernized, practically eliminating the *Gurukula* system and replacing it with modern schooling (GNU). When India gained independence, education of all children 6-14 was a huge priority, as stated in Article 45 of the Constitution: "Provision for free and compulsory education for children The State shall endeavor to provide, within a period of ten years from the commencement of this Constitution, for free and compulsory education for all children until they complete the age of fourteen years" (Indian Constitution) As such, education became a huge priority in India and most immigrants who traveled to the US were highly educated. Using sociological imagination to connect my experience with the society that my parents grew up in is very illuminating. 

In conclusion, using sociological imagination to connect one's personal experiences with one's society can be useful because it allows one to better question aspects of society instead of simply accepting whatever society is. Additionally, sociological imagination can be used by a large group of people based on anecdotal experience to change society for a better. It works both ways! 

## Works Cited

*What is sociological imagination?* (2021, July 30). National University. https://www.nu.edu/resources/what-is-sociological-imagination

*Constitution of india*. (n.d.). Retrieved July 13, 2022, from https://www.constitutionofindia.net/constitution_of_india/directive_principles_of_state_policy/articles/Article%2045

*The education system in india—Gnu project—Free software foundation*. (n.d.). Retrieved July 13, 2022, from https://www.gnu.org/education/edu-system-india.en.html#:~:text=The%20school%20system%20in%20India,and%20higher%20secondary%20into%20two.

Schneider, L. (2013). *Global sociology: Introducing five contemporary societies* (6th ed). McGraw-Hill.



