# "BIG" Discussion 2

The articles this week discuss the technological innovations occurring in Switzerland, which include things such as solar planes capable of trans-Pacific flight as well artificial intelligence that can help come up with vaccines. Additionally, the articles discuss the modern institutions available in Switzerland, including their fifty-seven free trade agreements and bilateral relations with the United States. When I researched a bit more about why Switzerland is so technologically innovative and known for its high quality products, I discovered that Switzerland was industrialized earlier than its European counterparts. Additionally, Switzerland's attitude towards its free trade has resulted in them focusing on creating high-quality products domestically, rather than buying cheap counterparts from other countries. Additionally, Switzerland's neutrality in conflicts such as both World Wars has resulted in them not suffering the same economic devastation that plagued, say, Germany at the end of World War I. Their relatively stable government has also helped the maintain a constant state of growth over the past few centuries, as shown in their federal constitution created in 1848 (History Switzerland). 

A few years ago, I actually traveled to Switzerland and stayed there for a few days as a layover to Italy. During my time there, I toured Zurich and noted the cleanliness and modernity of the place as compared to here. Many of the employees and people I met there were much more polite and forgiving than people here -- I remember accidentally dropping a glass at a chocolate store and instead of getting mad at me, they simply cleaned it up and asked politely for compensation, which I promptly gave. 

